1.  **理解：主题、命题、问题**

-   Topics: what's it about?
    -   Achievement: reason, political freedom, inner freedom, humanist attitudes
-   Propositions: what about the topics?
    -   它们分别是这样的、这样的、这样的
-   Questions: to what are the propositions answering?
    -   希腊的成就有哪些？具体是怎样的？

2.  **应用：如果你是出题人**
3.  **应用：长难句实战**

主题/topics：一个关键词

命题/propostion：或为真或为假的陈述句。

范畴：
陈述性质：观点-事实
语言形式：汉语句子-英语句子
论证要素：命题-论述-概念
句式字数：五言句-七言句


#### The Greek Achievement: Reason, Freedom, Humanism

**Topic of the entire passage: Greek achievement**

**Topics of each paragraphs: A1: reason; A2: freedom; A3: humanist attitudes**

##### Summarize：
Reason, one of the greatest achievement in western world, played a significant role in Greek history. The Greeks, first placed **REASON** over myths and gods. This was quite rare among all the ancient civilizations, such as Mesopotamian, and Egyptian.

Reason was extended to the fundamental political thought of Greece. The Greeks viewed law as the expression of reason by its citizens. The state, regarded as an agent of free citizens, acted according to the standards of good life.

There was a higher level of freedom than political freedom. Greeks treasured an ethical freedom, or an inner freedom. It means that people were able and should be able to choose freely.

Eventually, the conception of reason and freedom gave birth to the idea of universalism, which lay the foundation of modern concept of human rights.

The most profound achievement by the Greeks was their humanist attitudes toward life. Reason is the means, while humanity is the END. The Greeks believed that humans were capable of governing themselves, and directing themselves to a maximum cultivation. But at the same time, they also acknowledged that deep inside human nature, there is the evil part. Freedom does not mean no-restrict. Therefore, upon the humanist foundation, political institutions molded by reason, served to a guardianship of political freedom and ethical freedom.

**Topic: Reason**

**Proposition: Greek achievement is of great historical significance for its laying the foundation of REASON.**

**Question: What is the Greek achievement.**

关键命题：希腊人因「理性」而占历史一席。

Like other ancient peoples, the Greeks warred, massacred, and enslaved; they could be cruel, arrogant, contentious, and superstitious; and they often violated their own ideals.

希腊人也作过。

But their achievement was unquestionably of profound historical significance.

但希腊人历史成就不可否认。

Western thought essentially begins with the Greeks, who first defined the individual by the capacity to reason.

希腊人为西方鼻祖只因理性。

It was the great achievement of the Greek spirit to rise above magic, miracles, mystery, authority, and custom and to discover the procedures and terminology that permit a rational understanding of nature and society.

希腊人超越各种玄学以理性理解自然与社会。

Every aspect of Greek civilization—science, philosophy, art, drama, literature, politics, historical writing—showed a growing reliance on **human reason** and a diminishing dependence on the gods and mythical thinking.

希腊人各方面都体现出：理性＞神启

In Mesopotamia and Egypt, people had no clear conception of their individual worth and no understanding of political liberty.

（希腊的优越感）

They were not citizens, but subjects marching to the command of a ruler whose power originated with the gods.

其他的那些文明：普通人跟着跑；统治者君权神授。

Such royal power was not imposed on an unwilling population; it was religiously accepted and obeyed.

**Topic: civic politics and political freedom**

是何？

In contrast, the Greeks created both civic politics and political freedom.

希腊：公民政治 & 政治自由

They saw the state as a community of free citizens who made laws that served the common good and disputes between citizens were decided by a jury of one’s peers, not by the whims of a ruler or his officials.

希腊人眼中的国家和法律：由公民立法，法为人服务

The citizens had no master other than themselves.

公民管好自己（平等）

The Greeks held that men are capable of governing themselves, and they regarded active participation in public affairs as a duty.

积极参与公共事务

For the Greeks, the state was a civilizing agent, permitting people to live the good life.

希腊人眼中的State：就是个代理人，用来帮大家过好日子

Greek political thinkers arrived at a conception of the rational, or legal, state: a state in which law was an expression of reason, not of whim or divine commands; of justice, not of might; of the general good of the community, not of self- interest.

政治理念：法律是expression of reason，不是divine commands

They saw the state as a community of free citizens.

他们把state看成是free citizens的community。

who made laws

这些自由公民立法

这些法律 served the common good

and disputes between citizens were decided by a jury of one’s peers, not by the whims of a ruler or his officials.

The Greeks also gave to Western civilization a conception of inner, or ethical, freedom.

内在自由

People were free to choose between shame and honor, cowardice and duty, moderation and excess.

什么是内在自由：人生而自由，自由选择

The heroes of Greek tragedy suffered not because they were puppets being manipulated by higher powers, but because they possessed the freedom of decision.

举例：希腊英雄，连悲剧都是自己选的。

The idea of ethical freedom reached its highest point with Socrates, who shifted the focus of thought from cosmology to the human being and the moral life.

举例：苏格拉底——从关注宇宙到关注人伦

To shape oneself according to ideals known to the mind—to develop into an autonomous and self-directed person—became for the Greeks the highest form of freedom.

从自我心灵塑造自己是最高形式的自由。

Which of the following is TRUE about Greek inner freedom?

A. People should be free to choose between good qualities, such as honor, duty, and excess.

B. The heroes of Greek were usually depicted as tragical figures because they battled for inner freedom and angered the almighty gods.

C. Socrates developed ethical freedom directly from cosmology.

D. For the Greeks, it was the ultimate freedom to be autonomous and self directed.

Closest meaning to "excess"

A. Exit B. Excel C. Exodus D. Accelerate

During the Hellenistic Age, the Greeks, like the Hebrews earlier, arrived at the idea of universalism, the oneness of humanity.

希腊人新境界：普世价值，universalism, oneness

Stoic philosophers taught that all people, because of their ability to reason, are fundamentally alike and can be governed by the same laws.

人的理性思辨力的根源是一致的，故而自然法则应该普世

This idea is at the root of the modern principle of natural, or human rights, which are the birthright of each individual.

普世价值其实就是现代社会human rights的根基。


Underlying everything accomplished by the Greeks was a humanist attitude toward life.

人文主义的态度是上述的根基。

reason: 手段

humanism：目的

The Greeks expressed a belief in the worth, significance, and dignity of the individual. They called for the maximum cultivation of human talent, the full development of human personality, and the deliberate pursuit of excellence.

什么是人文主义？
Cultivation
Cultur

In valuing the human personality, the Greek humanists did not approve of living without restraints; they aimed at creating a higher type of man.

Such a man would mold himself according to worthy standards and make his life as harmonious and flawless as a work of art.

人文主义：成为更好的人

This aspiration required effort, discipline, and intelligence. Despite their lauding of the human being’s creative capacities, the Greeks were not naïve about human nature. Rather, intensely aware of the individual’s inherent capacity for evil, Greek thinkers repeatedly warned that without the restraining forces of law, civic institutions, moral norms, and character training, society would be torn apart by the savage elements within human nature.

人文主义：人性有恶，需要限制

But fundamental to the Greek humanist outlook was the belief that human beings could master themselves.

Although people could not alter the course of nature, for there was an order to the universe over which neither they nor the gods had control, the humanist believed that people could control their own lives.

Contemporary humanists continue to derive inspiration and guidelines from the literary, artistic, and philosophical creations of the ancient Greeks.